no more wood/stone tools instead you will need a flint tool first
flint tools have almost no durability and are slow, but with them, you can break coal and iron[???]

remove all armor recipes
add 2 types of armor for each ore:
-light armor (has less defence but allows running)
-heavy armor (has more defence, but you can only walk)
all armors are crafted with leather armor and can craft light or heavy armor based on the amount of ores surrounding them

add recipe for 2 slabs to 1 block
add recipe to turn stairs back to block(2 stairs into 1 block [and 1 slab])
sand in blast furnaces
change door recipe to give only 1 door

remove all ores/ingots from all loot tables
villagers do not sell enchanted gear?
villagers do not sell diamond gear

anvils do not enchant weapons with books anymore
enchanting books can only be used with an {block_name} which is craftable from netherite and diamond
enchanting table only enchant diamond tools[???]

remove all netherite recipes
netherite will have a darkish gold texture or a gold with dark spots
netherite can be used for:
-craft a diamond sword with a netherite handle
-[think of things which would be nice taken the list bellow into consideration]
-[...]

ore principles:
    flint is the most basic material(meaning it can do shit XD)
    iron is the most workable material(meaning you can do lots of stuff with it)
    copper(won't mess with it)
    redstone(won't mess with it)
    diamond is the hardest and most powerful material(meaning its great for dealing and protecting)(also it is the only material which has magical properties)
    gold is the lightest material(meaning it is good for making stuff quickly)
    netherite is the most adaptable material(meaning it enhances the properties of other materials)

nerf the hell out of iron equipments or buff the hell out of diamond equipments or both >:)

The shield will be replaced by a collection of shields with minecraft progression system in mind
arrows reduce the durability of shield by A LOT
these shields will reduce the damage taken by some percentage based on its material

The player can only attack when after the attack cooldown has ended[???]
Beds will now act as Terraria by only setting the player spawn point

all foods stack to 1 >:)
The player now naturally regenerates health down until a hunger level of 7 instead of 18[???]

doors break when on water
any block that stops water either breaks or gets filled with water(I don't think I will be able to do that)
add another bubble block which allow for player passage and water blockage

cows, sheeps, pigs, etc. are neutral now(like wolfs) or they run away from the player(a lot, and not in circles, I mean wtf mojang)

[things I want to add but don't think I actually will]:
    Sweep attack Is now only performed by a weapon enchanted with Sweeping Edge
    Spamming the attack button gives players slowness[???]
    knock back a mob by the amount of damage dealt
    reduce the radius shields blocks

    zombies breaking doors attracts other mobs
    zombies can break trapdoors
    zombies can climb ladders
    remove brightness slider
    mobs will attempt parkour
    villages & villagers will need a rework
    mobs follow lights
    mobs can track the player to the last seen location
    Mobs now group up and can be found in the wild at night
    enemies spawn rate are significantly increased

    stronghold will hold a nether portal:
    -portal room will contain a 5x5 portal made of crying obsidian
    -in the middle of the portal (3x0,0x3,5x3,3x5) will be one block (obsidian themed) that's unbreakable(???)
    -the player has to remove the crying obsidian from the portal and replace with smooth obsidian(or something akin) to ignite the portal

    end:
    -upon reaching the end you will get a breath timer

    ocean monuments:
    -upon killing all elder guardian the player starts to hear lots of thunders from the sky
    -fights a boss and get equipment? enchant? something? a block which generate a breathable area in the end?

    end can be accessed through breaking bedrock

[thing to inquire]:
    clock functionality?:
        -by that I mean instead of only displaying the general time they display the exact time, like terraria
        -some events only trigger at certain times
    how can I make minecarts usable?:
        golden minecarts?
        slime sticks carts together